---
layout: journal
title: "30 Days of Machine Learning"
excerpt: Mixing things up with a dip into Kaggle's 30 Days of ML course.
author: Max Lepper
categories: [journal]
tags: [python,"machine learning"]
date: 2021-08-30 23:00:00 -0400
modified_date: 
published: true
status: live
confidence: log
importance: 1
context: true
comments: true
skills: [python]
references: ["https://github.com/kaggle/docker-python","https://yare.io/","https://realpython.com/null-in-python/"]
timespent: 0
sleep: 0
recreation: 0
workout: 0
---

## Journal

{% include focus-box.html focus="Study" theme="Machine Learning" %}

## Task Management and Loss

On a whim many weeks ago, I signed up to get into a limited-time free 30-day ML course, and to be totally transparent, promptly forgot about it until the day 1 email came in - whoops!!

I have always been passionate about analyzing data and trying to uncover trends and patterns across individual samples, this blog being an example, what with my statistics pages. Finding a way to elevate my technical capabilities in this personal thing that brings me curiosity and joy is something that I'm strongly motivated to do in general, so I'm excited for this course.

The timing is a bit awkward, however, as I had just made myself sick and a little burnt for nearly two weeks pushing myself to to my physical limit launching a client site by a deadline. During my downtime, I've taken a hard look at why I've been burning out so frequently and how I approach challenges and come to the conclusion that I have outgrown my systems.

Five years ago, my partner and I had been in wedding planning mode for the better part of a year and were coming up on the day. Over that time, I had become increasingly aware of different task management approaches and mechanisms, but was mostly using tiered checklists and calendars. You know, normie stuff 😛

Then, I suddenly and unexpectedly lost my Dad in a terrible way. That task management knowledge quickly became a crutch and scaffold to hold life together and keep moving, as the unfeeling march of time waits not for the ones we've lost.

This system has grown and evolved drastically over the years, but at the core, checklists and due dates remained the chief driving force. Strings of ideas stitched along the passage of time, far more plentiful than I should hope to realistically accomplish with a dedicated team, let alone by myself, breeding guilt, anxiety, panic, and overwhelm into my core identity.

Not like I realized this, of course, until I started trying to smash things apart these past few days. I have new plans in motion, but that's a story for a different post (and more work on my end).

## Kaggle and ML

I had never heard of Kaggle before, and admittedly as I write this before starting the course, I'm still ignorant about what it is - some kind of ML/data science site, and it sounds like it runs notebooks?? I have no idea. But the course starts out gentle - make an account, here's what terms mean, make these changes, etc.

Reading the intro, it almost sounds like it's a data science bounty hunting site, which is...pretty badass. They also have datasets to pull from for data science projects, which would be very helpful - if I've heard one thing about data science, it's that it's 90% sanitizing data!

Kaggle allows users to run notebooks in the browser, so there's zero work involved with setting up my local environment (at least for now). The challenge it's having me enter is, given a subset of information about Titanic passengers, I need to determine how many people from the remaining passenger list survived. Kind of morbid, but interesting nonetheless. There is information like economic class and family structure for each passenger, as well, and I'm immediately curious exactly how those would have influenced survival rates.

### Day 1

In my first code book, they provide a [link to the Docker image]({{page.references[0]}}) for the environment used, so that'll be perfect for continuing with what I learn here this month.

Now we're starting to get some definition around terms I've seen before:
- numpy => linear algebra
- pandas => data processing

While I don't understand the specifics, I'm following along in a pseudo-code type fashion. Essentially, I was given code snippets to analyze survivors against the sample data with respect to trees of multiple characteristics, and then produce a model that fits that prediction. A more in-depth breakdown was suggested at the below link:

- [ ] https://www.kaggle.com/learn/intro-to-machine-learning

Easy peasy! Well, I didn't take the course yet, but this wasn't so bad, and I've leveled up to "contributor"! I had other commitments on the first day, so I'm behind already 😬 No sweat, moving on!

### Day 2

The next lesson starts to get into Python. I had dabbled in Python years ago on Treehouse, but the format didn't stick with me very well at the time. Approaching things now, I'm definitely finding that I have an appreciation for the readability of Python's syntax. I won't go into too many details, as this exercise covers data types, operators, and some built-in functions. Python's emphasis on intentional whitespace is, coming from a different language, probably the biggest takeaway.

After the intro segment, there were some syntax questions to solve. Working with notebooks is very interesting, as incrementally generating new values makes it accessible in different code blocks. Out of curiosity, I tried declaring a parameter in a lower code block and running, and it does expose that variable to earlier code blocks! This is something to be mindful of, as I could see this possibly causing unexpected errors.

### Day 3

Day 3 gets into functions in Python, both built-in and self-declared. Right away, it gets into using docstrings to document functions, which is definitely helpful! Here's the example given:

```python
def least_difference(a, b, c):
   """Return the smallest difference between any two numbers
   among a, b and c.
   
   >>> least_difference(1, 5, -5)
   4
   """
   diff1 = abs(a - b)
   diff2 = abs(b - c)
   diff3 = abs(a - c)
   return min(diff1, diff2, diff3)
```

The course mentions that Python's `None` is similar to `null` in other languages, so that got me curious to look up [more information about `None`.]({{page.references[2]}}) The blog linked gets deep into things, like the difference between how `None` evaluates with equality operators vs identity operators, and how Python tends to reuse objects and so it's best to initialize with `None` and then evaluate or reinitialize objects like arrays back to `None` before use.

We briefly touch on higher-order functions before moving into the exercises. It makes perfect sense in retrospect, but one point mentioned was that negative values can be used for the number of decimal places parameter used in `round`. This will round the number to the nearest 10th, 100th, and so forth, which seems like a quick way to go about it.

## Other Bits

A friend shared [yare.io]({{page.references[1]}}) with our group, which is a JavaScript-based real time strategy game! The tutorial took a minute to wrap my head around, but reading the documentation got me thinking of all kinds of different approaches and strategies. I got things to the point where units would divide into teams and only try to pick off smaller numbers of enemies, and then retreat to the nearest recharge point if under a certain health threshold or if out of energy, but then realized that I had plenty of other work to be doing. I'll absolutely be coming back to this, though!

Silver is Gold is a little bit quieter lately, which works out great with everything else going on. I made a few adjustments to user accounts and profiles, and tied the blog into the menu so that it was properly accessible, so that our Del Mar Fellow can start creating posts. They're reaching out to local businesses and individuals, so it'll be exciting to see what happens.

There are a few site projects I'm itching to ramp up in the near future. I've created some wireframes and rough drafts on paper, but have been curious to take it to the next level. I know I've looked into design platforms on here previously, but I was curious what other real people are using, and launched a Twitter poll:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-theme="dark"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">When designing a new website, what primary tool do you use to develop the layout, if any? If you&#39;re not using a tool, why not? <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ux?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ux</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/CodeNewbie?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#CodeNewbie</a></p>&mdash; Max Lepper (@MaxLepper) <a href="https://twitter.com/MaxLepper/status/1422922862155997186?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 4, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

It does sound like Figma is going to have the most flexibility and transportability out of the options, so that's where I'm currently leaning.

### Time Breakdown

Here's a breakdown of my time over the past few weeks:

- 8/3
  - 2h
- 8/4
  - 3h
- 8/5
  - 


## Gratitude

### What is going well?



### What could be better?



## Tasklist

- [x] Get started with the course!