---
layout: journal
title: "Log Template"
date: 2020-08-19 22:00:00 -0400
published: false
author: Max Lepper
categories: [journal]
tags: [yaml]
excerpt: A template page for log files
references: ["https://github.com/avillafiorita/jekyll-datapage_gen","https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=yzhang.markdown-all-in-one","https://shopify.github.io/liquid/tags/iteration/","https://materialdesignicons.com/"]
skills: [liquid, markdown, yaml, sass]
timespent: 215
---

## Journal

started with to-do page from previous blog
wrote js script to extract table data, but unsure how to actually collect all of that data.
if skills are data entries instead of pages, I can extract the values directly from the data instead of messing with a table

took the `Markdown` skill progression page and created a yaml file as a data-ified version of the page composition
structured everything to be easier to update instead of messing with markdown tables. Working in Markdown tables isn't too painful thanks to the [Markdown All-In-One plugin for VS Code]({{page.references[1]}}), but it does make it more difficult to snag information.

Using my new `Markdown` yaml, I want to have the pages generated more-or-less from scratch. I tried out [jekyll-datapage-generator]({{page.references[0]}}), but the more I looked into it, this will really only be useful if I have _single_ data file that I want to generate multiple pages from, rather than multiple data files to multiple pages. But wait, this is what I'm already doing with Collections!

The yaml file became a markdown file, and all of that data structure was stuffed into the Front Matter. This exposes the page.content value now for my quick reference section, so win-win! The layout now automatically builds the entire page from this Front Matter, and updating entries is much faster. Images are slightly more verbose to implement now than they were in Markdown, but I believe the payoff is certainly worth it. I thought about using Liquid's table iteration tags, but opted to build them in html directly for simplicity.

The key for the table has been bothering me, and I wasn't quite sure what to do with it. I have saved it for personal reference, but removed all other references to it, opting instead to inject the image definitions back into the skill "1.0" pages until I can get them upgraded to the new data-style...which may be before this log gets published.

taking things one step further, it was now much easier to gather up in-progress and upcoming items for a to-do page!
Added IDs to learning items
Added Objectives page, loop through each skill page and, if it contains in progress or up next items, output them to a task list with links to the target material, as well as the internal entry.

## Tasklist

- [ ] Optionally include itemized tasks