---
layout: journal
title: "TBD"
excerpt: TBD.
author: Max Lepper
categories: [journal]
tags: [agile-pm]
date: 2020-10-22 23:26:55 -0400
modified_date:
published: true
status: live
confidence: log
importance: 1
context: true
comments: true
skills: [agile-pm]
references: ["http://www.oblique-strategies.com/"]
timespent: 60
sleep: 380
recreation: 0
workout: 30
---

## Journal

finally completed prompt for [Oblique Strategies]({{page.references[0]}})

Find a safe part and use it as an anchor.

This has been my personal approach the past few days. With where things are right now, I know that I can personally assist with the landing page, so that has been my anchor. We can build on it and expand but at the end of the day, there’s something out there that’s public-facing and looks okay, and that feels good.
State the problem in words as simply as possible.

On the task management side, this prompt makes me think that I may be too focused on the technical approach to our build. I could create issues for smaller components with very minimal framework, and then details could be added by whoever works on the respective issue. I’m going to work on this next.
Emphasize repetitions.

With AGWSU, we had a routine set up with regular check-ins and sync meetings. While I had intended to be more diligent with this project, I have not coordinated as well as I would have liked. When Neal returns from his trip, I’d like to sync up and make a game plan for the next 9 days, and ideally schedule a peer programming session to review and refactor what I’ve done so far. I will be out of town myself for part of next week, so we only have a tiny window to try and bring things home.


tdc
created multiple smaller issues for individual main app components
asked about a sync / peer programming / code review session with Neal this weekend

## Tasklist

- [x] Post my daily updates on Product Lab
- [x] Post my daily updates on the TD Collection discord
- [x] Create new and more self-contained issues for TDC components
- [ ] Add a search bar component to the navigation element
- [ ] Make the landing page background scale to always cover all elements